modules/install-guides/pages/install-guide-linux.adoc, before:

= Installation Guide for Bare Metal Linux
:doctype: book
:icons: font
:source-highlighter: highlight.js
:sectlinks:

Revised: 2022-08-09

== Before you begin

=== Supported platforms

You can install zot on standard Linux platforms with
Intel or ARM processors and with systemd installed.

[supported-platforms-zot]
.Supported platforms and architectures
[%autowidth]
|===
| OS | ARCH | Platform

| linux | amd64 | Intel-based Linux servers
| linux | arm64 | ARM-based servers and Raspberry Pi4
|===

=== Full and minimal binary images

In addition to variations for specific platforms and architectures, binary images
are also available in full and minimal implementations:

- A full zot binary image is compiled with all extensions. Extensions
include functions such as metrics, registry synchronization, search, and scrub.

- A minimal distribution-spec conformant zot binary image is compiled with
only a minimal set of code and libraries, reducing the attack surface. This
option might be optimal for a registry embedded in a shipping product.

=== Binary image file naming

An executable binary image for zot is named using the target platform and
architecture from the
 <<supported-platforms-zot, Supported platforms and architectures>>
 table. The general format of a binary image file name is one of these two:

``zot-_os_-_architecture_``

- A full zot binary image with all extensions has a filename of the
form ``zot-_os_-_architecture_.`` For example, the full binary image for an
Intel-based linux server is `zot-linux-amd64`.

``zot-_os_-_architecture_-minimal``

- A minimal distribution-spec conformant zot binary image has a filename of
the form ``zot-_os_-_architecture_-minimal``. For example, the minimal binary
image for an Intel-based linux server is `zot-linux-amd64-minimal`.

== Installation

=== Step 1: Get zot

Using `wget,` download the appropriate zot binary image for your platform from the
https://github.com/project-zot/zot/releases[zot GitHub project]. Download the image
to the`/usr/bin/` directory and rename it to `zot,` as in this example:

----
$ wget -O /usr/bin/zot  https://github.com/project-zot/zot/releases/download/v1.4.2-rc2/zot-linux-amd64
----

.MIKE'S QUESTIONS
****
. Do we need to rename the binary or to chmod it to be executable?
. What does -N do?
****

=== Step 2: Create a zot configuration file

Create a zot configuration file as `/etc/zot/config.json`.

See <<config_file,Configuration file options>> for an example file with
options and recommendations. You can find other onfiguration file
https://github.com/project-zot/zot/tree/main/examples[examples] in
the zot GitHub project and in the _Zot Administrator Guide_.


=== Step 3: Configure a local authentication account

If you want to use local authentication with zot, create a `/etc/zot/htpasswd`
file with an initial account entry using the `htpasswd` command as in this
example:

----
$ htpasswd -bnB myUserName myPassword > /etc/zot/htpasswd
----

To add additional local users, use the `>>` redirect as in this example:

----
$ htpasswd -bnB myUserName2 myPassword2 >> /etc/zot/htpasswd
----

=== Step 4: Define the zot service

Create a `/etc/systemd/system/zot.service` file to define the zot service
in systemd.  The following is an example service file for zot:

----
[Unit]
Description=OCI Distribution Registry
Documentation=https://zotregistry.io/
After=network.target auditd.service local-fs.target

[Service]
Type=simple
ExecStart=/usr/bin/zot serve /etc/zot/config.json
Restart=on-failure
User=zot
Group=zot
LimitNOFILE=500000
MemoryHigh=30G
MemoryMax=32G

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
----

NOTE: Be sure to make 'zot' the User and Group.

=== Step 5: Set up a user ID named 'zot'

Create a user account 'zot' to be the owner of the zot service and its resources.

The following commands create the account and assign resource ownership:

----
$ sudo adduser --no-create-home --disabled-password --gecos --disabled-login zot

$ sudo mkdir -p /data/zot
$ sudo chown -R zot:zot /data/zot

$ sudo mkdir -p /var/log/zot
$ sudo chown -R zot:zot /var/log/zot

$ sudo chown root:root /usr/bin/zot
$ sudo chown root:root config.json
----

With the `adduser` options shown, the 'zot' user ID will have no local directory.
There will be no ability to log into the zot account, and the account will have
no finger information.

=== Step 6: Start zot

Enable and start the zot service with these commands:

----
$ sudo systemctl enable zot
$ sudo systemctl start zot
----

When the zot service has started, you can check its status with this command:

----
$ sudo systemctl status zot
----


== After the installation

If your zot registry server is public facing, we recommend that you test
your TLS configuration using a service such as
the https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/[Qualys SSL Server Test].

Refer to the _Zot Administrator Guide_ for further information about maintaining your
zot registry server.


[[config_file]]
== Configuration file options and recommendations

The following zot configuration file (`config.json`) can be used as a template
for your own installation. You can modify this file to suit your own environment.

Refer to the _Zot Administrator Guide_ for more details about configuration file
options.

[source,json]
----
{
  "distSpecVersion":"1.0.1",
  "storage":{
    "dedupe": true,
    "gc": true,
    "gcDelay": "1h",
    "gcInterval": "6h",
    "rootDirectory":"/data/zot/"
  },
  "http": {
    "address":"0.0.0.0",
    "port":"443",
    "realm":"zot",
    "tls": {
      "cert": "/etc/letsencrypt/live/zothub.io/fullchain.pem",
      "key": "/etc/letsencrypt/live/zothub.io/privkey.pem"
    },
    "auth": {
      "htpasswd": {
        "path": "/etc/zot/htpasswd"
      },
      "failDelay": 5
    },
    "allowReadAccess": true
  },
  "log":{
    "level":"debug",
    "output":"/var/log/zot/zot.log",
    "audit":"/var/log/zot/zot-audit.log"
  },
  "extensions": {
    "search": {
      "enable": true,
      "cve": {
        "updateInterval": "24h"
      }
    },
    "sync": {
      "enable": false,
      "registries": [
        {
          "urls": ["https://mirror.gcr.io/library"],
          "onDemand": true,
          "maxRetries": 3,
          "retryDelay": "5m",
          "pollInterval": "6h"
        },
        {
          "urls": ["https://docker.io/library"],
          "onDemand": true
        }
      ]
    },
    "scrub": {
      "interval": "24h"
    }
  }
}
----

=== TLS encryption

We recommend using a certificate authority such as
https://letsencrypt.org/[Let's Encrypt] that offers TLS encryption, as
shown in this configuration example:

[source,json]
----
"tls": {
  "cert": "/etc/letsencrypt/live/zothub.io/fullchain.pem",
  "key": "/etc/letsencrypt/live/zothub.io/privkey.pem"
}
----

=== Registry synchronization

The example file enables registry synchronization with two other container
registries. In the example, the zot server synchronizes with the Google
and Docker container registries, as shown here:

[source,json]
----
"sync": {
  "enable": false,
  "registries": [
    {
      "urls": ["https://mirror.gcr.io/library"],
      "onDemand": true,
      "maxRetries": 3,
      "retryDelay": "5m",
      "pollInterval": "6h"
    },
    {
      "urls": ["https://docker.io/library"],
      "onDemand": true
    }
  ]
}
----

Commit message:

clarified non-root user ID for zot service

modules/install-guides/pages/install-guide-linux.adoc, after:

= Installation Guide for Bare Metal Linux
:doctype: book
:icons: font
:source-highlighter: highlight.js
:sectlinks:

Revised: 2022-08-09

== Before you begin

=== Supported platforms

You can install zot on standard Linux platforms with
Intel or ARM processors and with systemd installed.

[supported-platforms-zot]
.Supported platforms and architectures
[%autowidth]
|===
| OS | ARCH | Platform

| linux | amd64 | Intel-based Linux servers
| linux | arm64 | ARM-based servers and Raspberry Pi4
|===

=== Full and minimal binary images

In addition to variations for specific platforms and architectures, binary images
are also available in full and minimal implementations:

- A full zot binary image is compiled with all extensions. Extensions
include functions such as metrics, registry synchronization, search, and scrub.

- A minimal distribution-spec conformant zot binary image is compiled with
only a minimal set of code and libraries, reducing the attack surface. This
option might be optimal for a registry embedded in a shipping product.

=== Binary image file naming

An executable binary image for zot is named using the target platform and
architecture from the
 <<supported-platforms-zot, Supported platforms and architectures>>
 table. The general format of a binary image file name is one of these two:

``zot-_os_-_architecture_``

- A full zot binary image with all extensions has a filename of the
form ``zot-_os_-_architecture_.`` For example, the full binary image for an
Intel-based linux server is `zot-linux-amd64`.

``zot-_os_-_architecture_-minimal``

- A minimal distribution-spec conformant zot binary image has a filename of
the form ``zot-_os_-_architecture_-minimal``. For example, the minimal binary
image for an Intel-based linux server is `zot-linux-amd64-minimal`.

== Installation

=== Step 1: Get zot

Using `wget,` download the appropriate zot binary image for your platform from the
https://github.com/project-zot/zot/releases[zot GitHub project]. Download the image
to the`/usr/bin/` directory and rename it to `zot,` as in this example:

----
$ wget -O /usr/bin/zot  https://github.com/project-zot/zot/releases/download/v1.4.2-rc2/zot-linux-amd64
----

.MIKE'S QUESTIONS
****
. Do we need to rename the binary or to chmod it to be executable?
. What does -N do?
****

=== Step 2: Create a zot configuration file

Create a zot configuration file as `/etc/zot/config.json`.

See <<config_file,Configuration file options>> for an example file with
options and recommendations. You can find other onfiguration file
https://github.com/project-zot/zot/tree/main/examples[examples] in
the zot GitHub project and in the _Zot Administrator Guide_.


=== Step 3: Configure a local authentication account

If you want to use local authentication with zot, create a `/etc/zot/htpasswd`
file with an initial account entry using the `htpasswd` command as in this
example:

----
$ htpasswd -bnB myUserName myPassword > /etc/zot/htpasswd
----

To add additional local users, use the `>>` redirect as in this example:

----
$ htpasswd -bnB myUserName2 myPassword2 >> /etc/zot/htpasswd
----

=== Step 4: Define the zot service

Create a `/etc/systemd/system/zot.service` file to define the zot service
in systemd.  The following is an example service file for zot:

----
[Unit]
Description=OCI Distribution Registry
Documentation=https://zotregistry.io/
After=network.target auditd.service local-fs.target

[Service]
Type=simple
ExecStart=/usr/bin/zot serve /etc/zot/config.json
Restart=on-failure
User=zot
Group=zot
LimitNOFILE=500000
MemoryHigh=30G
MemoryMax=32G

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
----

NOTE: Be sure to configure a dedicated non-root user ID as the User and Group in
the zot service definition. The 'zot' user ID in this example is created in the
next step.


=== Step 5: Create a user ID to own the zot service

Create a non-root user ID to be the owner of the zot service and its resources.

In this example, the user ID 'zot' is created with the `adduser` command, and
resource ownership is assigned.

----
$ sudo adduser --no-create-home --disabled-password --gecos --disabled-login zot

$ sudo mkdir -p /data/zot
$ sudo chown -R zot:zot /data/zot

$ sudo mkdir -p /var/log/zot
$ sudo chown -R zot:zot /var/log/zot

$ sudo chown root:root /usr/bin/zot
$ sudo chown root:root config.json
----

With the `adduser` options shown, the 'zot' user ID has no local directory.
There is no ability to log into the zot user account, and the account has
no finger information.


=== Step 6: Start zot

Enable and start the zot service with these commands:

----
$ sudo systemctl enable zot
$ sudo systemctl start zot
----

When the zot service has started, you can check its status with this command:

----
$ sudo systemctl status zot
----


== After the installation

If your zot registry server is public facing, we recommend that you test
your TLS configuration using a service such as
the https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/[Qualys SSL Server Test].

Refer to the _Zot Administrator Guide_ for further information about maintaining your
zot registry server.


[[config_file]]
== Configuration file options and recommendations

The following zot configuration file (`config.json`) can be used as a template
for your own installation. You can modify this file to suit your own environment.

Refer to the _Zot Administrator Guide_ for more details about configuration file
options.

[source,json]
----
{
  "distSpecVersion":"1.0.1",
  "storage":{
    "dedupe": true,
    "gc": true,
    "gcDelay": "1h",
    "gcInterval": "6h",
    "rootDirectory":"/data/zot/"
  },
  "http": {
    "address":"0.0.0.0",
    "port":"443",
    "realm":"zot",
    "tls": {
      "cert": "/etc/letsencrypt/live/zothub.io/fullchain.pem",
      "key": "/etc/letsencrypt/live/zothub.io/privkey.pem"
    },
    "auth": {
      "htpasswd": {
        "path": "/etc/zot/htpasswd"
      },
      "failDelay": 5
    },
    "allowReadAccess": true
  },
  "log":{
    "level":"debug",
    "output":"/var/log/zot/zot.log",
    "audit":"/var/log/zot/zot-audit.log"
  },
  "extensions": {
    "search": {
      "enable": true,
      "cve": {
        "updateInterval": "24h"
      }
    },
    "sync": {
      "enable": false,
      "registries": [
        {
          "urls": ["https://mirror.gcr.io/library"],
          "onDemand": true,
          "maxRetries": 3,
          "retryDelay": "5m",
          "pollInterval": "6h"
        },
        {
          "urls": ["https://docker.io/library"],
          "onDemand": true
        }
      ]
    },
    "scrub": {
      "interval": "24h"
    }
  }
}
----

=== TLS encryption

We recommend using a certificate authority such as
https://letsencrypt.org/[Let's Encrypt] that offers TLS encryption, as
shown in this configuration example:

[source,json]
----
"tls": {
  "cert": "/etc/letsencrypt/live/zothub.io/fullchain.pem",
  "key": "/etc/letsencrypt/live/zothub.io/privkey.pem"
}
----

=== Registry synchronization

The example file enables registry synchronization with two other container
registries. In the example, the zot server synchronizes with the Google
and Docker container registries, as shown here:

[source,json]
----
"sync": {
  "enable": false,
  "registries": [
    {
      "urls": ["https://mirror.gcr.io/library"],
      "onDemand": true,
      "maxRetries": 3,
      "retryDelay": "5m",
      "pollInterval": "6h"
    },
    {
      "urls": ["https://docker.io/library"],
      "onDemand": true
    }
  ]
}
----
