modules/admin-guide/partials/user-guide-chapters/getting-started/building.adoc, before:

== How to get {zotLowerName}

The {zotLowerName} project is hosted on GitHub at https://github.com/project-zot/zot[project-zot].
From GitHub, you can download {zotLowerName} executable binary images or full source code.

=== Supported platforms

{zotUpperName} is officially supported on Linux and Apple MacOS platforms, using
Intel or ARM processors. However, development
should be possible on any platform that supports the `golang` toolchain.

[supported-platforms-and-architectures-table-zot]
.Supported platforms and architectures
[%autowidth]
|===
| OS | ARCH | Platform

| linux | amd64 | Intel-based Linux servers
| linux | arm64 | ARM-based servers and Raspberry Pi4
| darwin | amd64 | Intel-based MacOS
| darwin | arm64 | ARM-based MacOS
|===

=== Full and minimal binary images

In addition to variations for specific platforms and architectures, images
are also available in full and minimal implementations:

- A full {zotLowerName} binary image is compiled with all extensions. Extensions
include functions such as metrics, registry synchronization, search, and scrub.

- A minimal distribution-spec conformant {zotLowerName} binary image is compiled with
only a minimal set of code and libraries, reducing the attack surface. This
option might be optimal for a registry embedded in a shipping product.

=== Binary image file naming

An executable binary image for {zotLowerName} is named using the target platform and
architecture from the
 <<supported-platforms-and-architectures-table-zot, Supported platforms and architectures>>
 table. The general format of a binary image file name is one of these two:

``zot-_os_-_architecture_``

- A full {zotLowerName} binary image with all extensions has a filename of the
form ``zot-_os_-_architecture_.`` For example, the full binary image for an
Intel-based linux server is `zot-linux-amd64`.

``zot-_os_-_architecture_-minimal``

- A minimal distribution-spec conformant {zotLowerName} binary image has a filename of
the form ``zot-_os_-_architecture_-minimal``. For example, the minimal binary
image for an Intel-based linux server is `zot-linux-amd64-minimal`.

=== Deployment methods

Several options exist for deploying {zotLowerName}:

- You can launch a {zotLowerName} binary as a container service using a container
management tool such as Podman, Docker, or Helm.

- You can launch {zotLowerName} as a host-level service by downloading a binary image
and running it as a systemd service.

- You can copy or clone the full {zotLowerName} source code and build an image
with custom build flags.

== Deploying a {zotLowerName} binary image

Executable binary images for supported server platforms and architectures are
available from the
https://github.com/orgs/project-zot/packages?repo_name=zot[zot package repository]
in GitHub.

You can download the appropriate binary image and run it directly on your server, or
you can use a container management tool such as Podman, runc, Helm, or Docker to
fetch and deploy the image in a container on your server.

TIP: For convenience, you can rename the binary image file to simply `zot.`

=== Example: Deploying with a container manager

Using a container manager such as Podman, runc, Helm, or Docker, you can install
a {zotLowerName} binary image, as in the following examples.

.Using Podman
----
podman run -p 5000:5000 ghcr.io/project-zot/zot-linux-amd64:latest
----

----
podman run -p 5000:5000 ghcr.io/project-zot/zot-linux-amd64-minimal:latest
----

.Using Docker
----
docker run -p 5000:5000 ghcr.io/project-zot/zot-linux-amd64:latest
----

Each of these example commands pulls a {zotLowerName} binary image from the GitHub
Container Registry (ghcr.io) and launches a {zotLowerName} image registry
at http://localhost:5000.


== Building {zotLowerName} from source

=== Prerequisites

==== Install golang (1.17+)

The zot project requires `golang 1.17` or newer. You can follow
https://go.dev/learn/[these instructions] to install the `golang` toolchain.  After
installation, make sure that the `path` environment variable or your IDE can find
the toolchain.

=== Building an executable binary from source

Download or clone the full {zotLowerName} project from GitHub at
https://github.com/project-zot/zot[project-zot].
To clone the {zotLowerName} project from GitHub, use this command:

----
git clone https://github.com/project-zot/zot.git
----

To build {zotLowerName}, execute the `make` command in the {zotLowerName} directory
using the following general syntax:

``make OS=_os_ ARCH=_architecture_ {binary | binary-minimal}``

====
- The operating system and architecture options are listed in the
 <<supported-platforms-and-architectures-table-zot, Supported platforms and architectures>>
 table. If an option is not specified, the defaults are `linux` and `amd64`.

- The `binary` option builds the full {zotLowerName} binary image with all extensions.

- The `binary-minimal` option builds the minimal distribution-spec conformant {zotLowerName}
binary image without extensions, reducing the attack surface.
====

For example, to build a {zotLowerName} image with extensions for an Intel-based
linux server, use the following command:

----
make OS=linux ARCH=amd64 binary
----

The `make` command builds an executable image in the `zot/bin` directory.
The original filename of the {zotLowerName} executable image will indicate the
build options. For example, the filename of an Intel-based linux minimal image is
`zot-linux-amd64-minimal`.

TIP: For convenience, you can rename the binary image file to simply `zot`.

=== Building and deploying a {zotLowerName} container image from source

A sample Dockerfile is provided on the https://github.com/project-zot/zot/blob/main/Dockerfile[zot project page]
in GitHub. You can edit the sample file with your specific values, such as the desired
operating system, hardware architecture, and full or minimal build, as in this example:

----
ARG OS=linux
ARG ARCH=amd64

RUN make COMMIT=$COMMIT OS=$OS ARCH=$ARCH clean binary-minimal
----

Using your edited Dockerfile, you can build a container image that runs
the latest {zotLowerName} by running the following command:

----
make image
----

Deploy the image using your container manager, such as Podman, runc, Helm, or Docker,
as in these examples:

.with Podman
----
podman run --rm -it -p 5000:5000 -v $(pwd)/registry:/var/lib/registry zot:latest
----

.with Docker
----
docker run --rm -it -p 5000:5000 -v $(pwd)/registry:/var/lib/registry zot:latest
----

A container image built with the sample Dockerfile and deployed with the example
command results in a running registry at `http://localhost:5000`.  Registry content
is stored at `.registry`, which is bind mounted to `/var/lib/registry` in
the container. By default, auth is disabled.  As part of the build, a YAML
configuration file is created at `/etc/zot/config.yml` in the container.

You can override the configuration file with custom configuration settings in the
deployment command and in a local configuration file as shown in this example:

----
podman run --rm -p 8080:8080 \
  -v $(pwd)/custom-config.yml:/etc/zot/config.yml \
  -v $(pwd)/registry:/tmp/zot \
  zot:latest
----

This command causes the registry to listen on port 8080 and to use `/tmp/zot` for
content storage.

.MIKE'S QUESTIONS
****
. Does the 'make image' command use the Dockerfile?  Wouldn't we use a docker command?
. How do we specify the inclusion of zli and zb binaries in the container?
****

Commit message:

added Released Artifacts, reorganized sitee

modules/admin-guide/partials/user-guide-chapters/getting-started/building.adoc, after:

== How to get {zotLowerName}

The {zotLowerName} project is hosted on GitHub at https://github.com/project-zot/zot[project-zot].
From GitHub, you can download {zotLowerName} executable binary images or full source code.

=== Supported platforms

{zotUpperName} is officially supported on Linux and Apple MacOS platforms, using
Intel or ARM processors. However, development
should be possible on any platform that supports the `golang` toolchain.

[supported-platforms-and-architectures-table-zot]
.Supported platforms and architectures
[%autowidth]
|===
| OS | ARCH | Platform

| linux | amd64 | Intel-based Linux servers
| linux | arm64 | ARM-based servers and Raspberry Pi4
| darwin | amd64 | Intel-based MacOS
| darwin | arm64 | ARM-based MacOS
|===

=== About binary images

Executable binary zot images are available for multiple platforms and
architectures and with full or minimal implementations.

Refer to xref:general:artifacts.adoc[_Released Artifacts for zot_]
for information about available zot images along with information about
image variations, image locations, and image naming formats.

=== Deployment methods

Several options exist for deploying {zotLowerName}:

- You can launch a {zotLowerName} binary as a container service using a container
management tool such as Podman, Docker, or Helm.

- You can launch {zotLowerName} as a host-level service by downloading a binary image
and running it as a systemd service.

- You can copy or clone the full {zotLowerName} source code and build an image
with custom build flags.

== Deploying a {zotLowerName} binary image

Executable binary images for supported server platforms and architectures are
available from the
https://github.com/orgs/project-zot/packages?repo_name=zot[zot package repository]
in GitHub.

You can download the appropriate binary image and run it directly on your server, or
you can use a container management tool such as Podman, runc, Helm, or Docker to
fetch and deploy the image in a container on your server.

TIP: For convenience, you can rename the binary image file to simply `zot.`

=== Example: Deploying with a container manager

Using a container manager such as Podman, runc, Helm, or Docker, you can install
a {zotLowerName} binary image, as in the following examples.

.Using Podman
----
podman run -p 5000:5000 ghcr.io/project-zot/zot-linux-amd64:latest
----

----
podman run -p 5000:5000 ghcr.io/project-zot/zot-linux-amd64-minimal:latest
----

.Using Docker
----
docker run -p 5000:5000 ghcr.io/project-zot/zot-linux-amd64:latest
----

Each of these example commands pulls a {zotLowerName} binary image from the GitHub
Container Registry (ghcr.io) and launches a {zotLowerName} image registry
at http://localhost:5000.


== Building {zotLowerName} from source

=== Prerequisites

==== Install golang (1.17+)

The zot project requires `golang 1.17` or newer. You can follow
https://go.dev/learn/[these instructions] to install the `golang` toolchain.  After
installation, make sure that the `path` environment variable or your IDE can find
the toolchain.

=== Building an executable binary from source

Download or clone the full {zotLowerName} project from GitHub at
https://github.com/project-zot/zot[project-zot].
To clone the {zotLowerName} project from GitHub, use this command:

----
git clone https://github.com/project-zot/zot.git
----

To build {zotLowerName}, execute the `make` command in the {zotLowerName} directory
using the following general syntax:

``make OS=_os_ ARCH=_architecture_ {binary | binary-minimal}``

====
- The operating system and architecture options are listed in the
 <<supported-platforms-and-architectures-table-zot, Supported platforms and architectures>>
 table. If an option is not specified, the defaults are `linux` and `amd64`.

- The `binary` option builds the full {zotLowerName} binary image with all extensions.

- The `binary-minimal` option builds the minimal distribution-spec conformant {zotLowerName}
binary image without extensions, reducing the attack surface.
====

For example, to build a {zotLowerName} image with extensions for an Intel-based
linux server, use the following command:

----
make OS=linux ARCH=amd64 binary
----

The `make` command builds an executable image in the `zot/bin` directory.
The original filename of the {zotLowerName} executable image will indicate the
build options. For example, the filename of an Intel-based linux minimal image is
`zot-linux-amd64-minimal`.

TIP: For convenience, you can rename the binary image file to simply `zot`.

=== Building and deploying a {zotLowerName} container image from source

A sample Dockerfile is provided on the https://github.com/project-zot/zot/blob/main/Dockerfile[zot project page]
in GitHub. You can edit the sample file with your specific values, such as the desired
operating system, hardware architecture, and full or minimal build, as in this example:

----
ARG OS=linux
ARG ARCH=amd64

RUN make COMMIT=$COMMIT OS=$OS ARCH=$ARCH clean binary-minimal
----

Using your edited Dockerfile, you can build a container image that runs
the latest {zotLowerName} by running the following command:

----
make image
----

Deploy the image using your container manager, such as Podman, runc, Helm, or Docker,
as in these examples:

.with Podman
----
podman run --rm -it -p 5000:5000 -v $(pwd)/registry:/var/lib/registry zot:latest
----

.with Docker
----
docker run --rm -it -p 5000:5000 -v $(pwd)/registry:/var/lib/registry zot:latest
----

A container image built with the sample Dockerfile and deployed with the example
command results in a running registry at `http://localhost:5000`.  Registry content
is stored at `.registry`, which is bind mounted to `/var/lib/registry` in
the container. By default, auth is disabled.  As part of the build, a YAML
configuration file is created at `/etc/zot/config.yml` in the container.

You can override the configuration file with custom configuration settings in the
deployment command and in a local configuration file as shown in this example:

----
podman run --rm -p 8080:8080 \
  -v $(pwd)/custom-config.yml:/etc/zot/config.yml \
  -v $(pwd)/registry:/tmp/zot \
  zot:latest
----

This command causes the registry to listen on port 8080 and to use `/tmp/zot` for
content storage.

.MIKE'S QUESTIONS
****
. Does the 'make image' command use the Dockerfile?  Wouldn't we use a docker command?
. How do we specify the inclusion of zli and zb binaries in the container?
****
