modules/admin-guide/partials/user-guide-chapters/server-configuration/storage-config.adoc, before:

[#_storage_config]
== Storage options

With {zotLowerName}, you have the option to store your registry image files either
in local filesystem storage or in cloud storage, such as an Amazon Simple Storage
Service (S3) bucket.

[#_local_storage_config]
== Configuring local storage

Local filesystem storage for {zotLowerName} is configured with the `storage`
attribute in the configuration file, as shown in the following example.

[source,json]
----
"storage":{
  "rootDirectory":"/tmp/zot",
  "commit": true,
  "dedupe": true,
  "gc": true,
  "gcDelay": "1h",
  "gcInterval": "24h"
}
----

The following table lists the configurable attributes.

[%autowidth]
|===
| Attribute | Description

|`rootDirectory` |
Location  of the images stored in the server file system.
|`commit` |
For faster performance, data written by {zotLowerName} is retained in memory before
being periodically committed to disk by the operating system. To eliminate this
retention time and cause data to be written to disk immediately, set to `true`.
This prevents data loss but reduces performance.
|`dedupe` |
If the server filesystem supports hard links, you can optimize storage space by enabling
inline deduplication of layers and blobs that are shared among multiple container images.
Deduplication is enabled by default. Set to `false` to disable deduplication.
|`gc` |
When an image is deleted, either by tag or by reference, orphaned blobs
can lead to wasted storage. Garbage collection (gc) is enabled by default
to reclaim this space. Set to `false` to disable garbage collection.
|`gcDelay` | (Optional) If garbage collection is enabled, causes it to run once after
the specified delay time. Requires the `gc` attribute to be `true`.
|`gcInterval` | (Optional) If garbage collection is enabled, causes it to run periodically
at the specified interval. Requires the `gc` attribute to be `true`.
|`subpaths` a|
You can store and serve images from multiple filesystems, each with
their own repository paths and settings. The following example shows three subpaths.

[source,json]
----
"storage":{
  "subPaths": {
    "/a": {
      "rootDirectory": "/tmp/zot1",
      "dedupe": true,
      "gc": true
    },
    "/b": {
      "rootDirectory": "/tmp/zot2",
      "dedupe": true
    },
    "/c": {
      "rootDirectory": "/tmp/zot3",
      "dedupe": false
    }
  }
}
----

|===


.MIKE'S QUESTIONS
****
. Are these the only attributes?
. What values and ranges are allowed for gcDelay and gcInterval?
****

[#_s3_storage_config]
== Configuring S3 storage

Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) for {zotLowerName} can be configured with the
`storageDriver` attribute in the configuration file, as shown in the following example:

[source,json]
----
"storageDriver": {
    "name": "s3",
    "region": "us-east-2",
    "bucket": "zot-storage",
    "secure": true,
    "skipverify": false,
    "accesskey": "<YOUR_ACCESS_KEY_ID>",
    "secretkey": "<YOUR_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>"
}
----

As in the case with local filesystem storage, you can use multiple storage
locations using the `subpath` attribute, as in the following example.

[source,json]
----
"subPaths": {
    "/a": {
        "rootDirectory": "/zot-a",
        "storageDriver": {
            "name": "s3",
            "region": "us-east-2",
            "bucket": "zot-storage",
            "secure": true,
            "skipverify": false
        }
    },
    "/b": {

...

    }
}
----


[#_s3_credentials]
=== S3 Credentials

In the first configuration file example, the S3 credentials were configured with the
attributes `accesskey` and `secretkey.` As an alternative, you can omit these attributes
from the configuration file and you can configure them using environment variables or a
credential file.

- Environment variables
+
{zotUpperName} looks for credentials in the following environment variables:
+
----
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
AWS_SESSION_TOKEN (optional)
----

- Credential file
+
A credential file is a plaintext file that contains your access keys, as shown in
the following example.
+
----
[default]
aws_access_key_id = <YOUR_DEFAULT_ACCESS_KEY_ID>
aws_secret_access_key = <YOUR_DEFAULT_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>

[test-account]
aws_access_key_id = <YOUR_TEST_ACCESS_KEY_ID>
aws_secret_access_key = <YOUR_TEST_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>

[prod-account]
; work profile
aws_access_key_id = <YOUR_PROD_ACCESS_KEY_ID>
aws_secret_access_key = <YOUR_PROD_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>
----
+
The `[default]` heading defines credentials for the default profile, which {zotLowerName}
will use unless you configure it to use another profile.  You can specify a profile using the
`AWS_PROFILE` environment variable as in this example:
+
----
AWS_PROFILE=test-account
----
+
The credential file must be named `credentials.` The file must be located in the
`.aws/` folder in the home directory of the same server that is running your {zotLowerName}
application.

For more details about specifying S3 credentials, see the
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/v1/developer-guide/configuring-sdk.html#specifying-credentials[AWS documentation].

Commit message:

add datapath user guide, other minor fixes

modules/admin-guide/partials/user-guide-chapters/server-configuration/storage-config.adoc, after:

[#_storage_config]
== Storage options

With {zotLowerName}, you have the option to store your registry image files either
in local filesystem storage or in cloud storage, such as an Amazon Simple Storage
Service (S3) bucket.

[#_local_storage_config]
== Configuring local storage

Local filesystem storage for {zotLowerName} is configured with the `storage`
attribute in the configuration file, as shown in the following example.

[source,json]
----
"storage":{
  "rootDirectory":"/tmp/zot",
  "commit": true,
  "dedupe": true,
  "gc": true,
  "gcDelay": "1h",
  "gcInterval": "24h"
}
----

The following table lists the configurable attributes.

[%autowidth]
|===
| Attribute | Description

|`rootDirectory` |
Location  of the images stored in the server file system.
|`commit` |
For faster performance, data written by {zotLowerName} is retained in memory before
being periodically committed to disk by the operating system. To eliminate this
retention time and cause data to be written to disk immediately, set to `true`.
This prevents data loss but reduces performance.
|`dedupe` |
If the server filesystem supports hard links, you can optimize storage space by enabling
inline deduplication of layers and blobs that are shared among multiple container images.
Deduplication is enabled by default. Set to `false` to disable deduplication.
|`gc` |
When an image is deleted, either by tag or by reference, orphaned blobs
can lead to wasted storage. Garbage collection (gc) is enabled by default
to reclaim this space. Set to `false` to disable garbage collection.
|`gcDelay` | (Optional) If garbage collection is enabled, causes it to run once after the specified delay time. The default is 1 hour.
Requires the `gc` attribute to be `true`.
|`gcInterval` | (Optional) If garbage collection is enabled, causes periodic collection at the specified interval. Must be set based on use cases and user workloads. If no value is specified, there is no periodic collection.
Requires the `gc` attribute to be `true`. 
|`subpaths` a|
You can store and serve images from multiple filesystems, each with
their own repository paths and settings. The following example shows three subpaths.

[source,json]
----
"storage":{
  "subPaths": {
    "/a": {
      "rootDirectory": "/tmp/zot1",
      "dedupe": true,
      "gc": true
    },
    "/b": {
      "rootDirectory": "/tmp/zot2",
      "dedupe": true
    },
    "/c": {
      "rootDirectory": "/tmp/zot3",
      "dedupe": false
    }
  }
}
----

|===


[#_s3_storage_config]
== Configuring S3 storage

Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) for {zotLowerName} can be configured with the
`storageDriver` attribute in the configuration file, as shown in the following example:

[source,json]
----
"storageDriver": {
    "name": "s3",
    "region": "us-east-2",
    "bucket": "zot-storage",
    "secure": true,
    "skipverify": false,
    "accesskey": "<YOUR_ACCESS_KEY_ID>",
    "secretkey": "<YOUR_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>"
}
----

As in the case with local filesystem storage, you can use multiple storage
locations using the `subpath` attribute, as in the following example.

[source,json]
----
"subPaths": {
    "/a": {
        "rootDirectory": "/zot-a",
        "storageDriver": {
            "name": "s3",
            "region": "us-east-2",
            "bucket": "zot-storage",
            "secure": true,
            "skipverify": false
        }
    },
    "/b": {

...

    }
}
----


[#_s3_credentials]
=== S3 Credentials

In the first configuration file example, the S3 credentials were configured with the
attributes `accesskey` and `secretkey.` As an alternative, you can omit these attributes
from the configuration file and you can configure them using environment variables or a
credential file.

- Environment variables
+
{zotUpperName} looks for credentials in the following environment variables:
+
----
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
AWS_SESSION_TOKEN (optional)
----

- Credential file
+
A credential file is a plaintext file that contains your access keys, as shown in
the following example.
+
----
[default]
aws_access_key_id = <YOUR_DEFAULT_ACCESS_KEY_ID>
aws_secret_access_key = <YOUR_DEFAULT_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>

[test-account]
aws_access_key_id = <YOUR_TEST_ACCESS_KEY_ID>
aws_secret_access_key = <YOUR_TEST_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>

[prod-account]
; work profile
aws_access_key_id = <YOUR_PROD_ACCESS_KEY_ID>
aws_secret_access_key = <YOUR_PROD_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>
----
+
The `[default]` heading defines credentials for the default profile, which {zotLowerName}
will use unless you configure it to use another profile.  You can specify a profile using the
`AWS_PROFILE` environment variable as in this example:
+
----
AWS_PROFILE=test-account
----
+
The credential file must be named `credentials.` The file must be located in the
`.aws/` folder in the home directory of the same server that is running your {zotLowerName}
application.

For more details about specifying S3 credentials, see the
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/v1/developer-guide/configuring-sdk.html#specifying-credentials[AWS documentation].
